# JHUGetting-CleaningData
A repo for the JHU Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

##Introduction

This is a repository for the peer-graded assignment on the Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data course. It contains the relevant details and code to analyse and extract an independent tidy data set on Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones.

##Original Data

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

##Files

CodeBook.md - A codebook that describes each step performed during the coding, and describes the output.

run_analysis.R - This file is the R script that performs the data cleansing and combining, and extraction of an independent tidy data set. It also includes the same descriptions of each action as the Codebook for ease of reference. In particular, this code performs the following, as required for the assignment:
1.Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2.Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3.Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4.Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
5.From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

IndependentTidyData.txt - This is the output file generated by the R script (run_analysis.R) above and described in the Codebook.

##Running the code

To prepare the IndependentTidyData.txt file, the run_analysis.R code can be run. This R script connects to the internet to download the file if a folder "UCI HAR Dataset.zip" is NOT in the current working directory.

Re-running this R script will overwrite this file.

The output tidy data file is described in the CodeBook.md file.
